README.md, before:

# CityShob - Task Management Application

A full-stack task management application built with MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express, Angular, Node.js) with real-time updates using Socket.IO.

## Technology Stack

### Backend

- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime environment
- **Express**: Web application framework for Node.js
- **TypeScript**: Typed superset of JavaScript
- **MongoDB**: NoSQL database for storing task and user information
- **Mongoose**: MongoDB object modeling for Node.js
- **Socket.IO**: Real-time bidirectional event-based communication
- **JWT**: JSON Web Tokens for authentication
- **bcrypt**: Password hashing
- **dotenv**: Environment variable management
- **cors**: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
- **cookie-parser**: Middleware for parsing cookies

### Frontend

- **Angular 19**: Frontend framework
- **Angular Material**: UI component library
- **RxJS**: Reactive programming library
- **Socket.IO-client**: Client library for Socket.IO
- **ngx-cookie-service**: Service for handling cookies

## Project Structure

```
.
├── backend/                 # Node.js Express backend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── config/          # Configuration files
│   │   ├── controllers/     # Request handlers
│   │   ├── customFilter/    # Error handling
│   │   ├── middleware/      # Express middleware
│   │   ├── models/          # Mongoose schemas
│   │   ├── routes/          # API routes
│   │   ├── services/        # Business logic
│   │   ├── index.ts         # Entry point
│   │   └── socket.io.ts     # Socket.IO configuration
│   ├── package.json
│   └── tsconfig.json
│
└── frontend/                # Angular frontend
    ├── src/
    │   ├── app/
    │   │   ├── components/  # Angular components
    │   │   ├── models/      # TypeScript interfaces
    │   │   ├── services/    # Angular services
    │   │   └── ...          # Other Angular files
    │   ├── environments/    # Environment configuration
    │   └── ...              # Other Angular files
    ├── angular.json
    └── package.json
```

## Features

- User authentication (register, login, logout)
- Create, read, update, delete tasks
- Real-time updates when tasks are modified
- Responsive design with Angular Material

## API Endpoints

### Authentication

- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register a new user
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Login
- `POST /api/auth/logout` - Logout

### Tasks

- `GET /api/tasks` - Get all tasks for the authenticated user
- `POST /api/tasks` - Create a new task
- `PUT /api/tasks/:id` - Update a task
- `DELETE /api/tasks/:id` - Delete a task

## Socket.IO Events

- `task-created` - Emitted when a new task is created
- `task-updated` - Emitted when a task is updated
- `task-deleted` - Emitted when a task is deleted

## Setting Up and Running Locally

Follow these comprehensive steps to set up and run the application on your local machine:

### 1. Clone the Repository

```powershell
git clone <repository-url>
cd CityShob
```

### 2. MongoDB Setup

Ensure MongoDB is installed and running locally, or use MongoDB Atlas for cloud-based database:

- For local MongoDB, start the MongoDB service
- For MongoDB Atlas, create a new cluster and connection string

### 3. Backend Setup

```powershell
# Navigate to backend directory
cd backend

# Create .env file
New-Item .env -ItemType File

# Add environment variables to .env
@"
PORT=3000
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/tasks
JWT_SECRET=your_secure_secret_key
CLIENT_URL=http://localhost:4200
"@ | Out-File .env -Encoding utf8

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

### 4. Frontend Setup

```powershell
# Open a new terminal window
# Navigate to frontend directory
cd frontend

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server using one of these commands:
npm start   # uses the script defined in package.json
# OR
ng serve    # uses Angular CLI directly
```

### 5. Access the Application

- Backend API: http://localhost:3000
- Frontend application: http://localhost:4200

### 6. First-time Setup

1. Register a new user account
2. Log in with your credentials
3. Start creating and managing tasks

## Design Decisions and Patterns

The application follows several architectural and design patterns to ensure maintainability, scalability, and code quality:

### Architecture

- **MEAN Stack**: Combines MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node.js for a JavaScript-based full-stack solution.
- **RESTful API**: Backend resources are exposed through a RESTful API interface with proper HTTP methods.
- **Real-time Communication**: Socket.IO implementation enables real-time task updates across clients.

### Design Patterns

- **MVC Pattern**: The backend follows the Model-View-Controller pattern:

  - Models (Mongoose schemas) for data structure
  - Controllers for request handling
  - Services for business logic

- **Repository Pattern**: Data access is abstracted through service classes.
- **Dependency Injection**: Angular services use DI for loose coupling between components.
- **Observer Pattern**: RxJS observables are used for reactive state management in the frontend.
- **Guard Pattern**: Route guards provide authentication protection for routes.

### Security Considerations

- **JWT Authentication**: Secure authentication using JSON Web Tokens.
- **Password Hashing**: Bcrypt is used for secure password storage.
- **CORS Configuration**: Properly configured Cross-Origin Resource Sharing.
- **HTTP-only Cookies**: For secure token storage and transmission.

### Code Organization

- **Feature Modules**: Frontend code is organized by feature for better maintainability.
- **Single Responsibility**: Components and services follow the single responsibility principle.
- **Separation of Concerns**: Clear separation between UI, business logic, and data access.

These design decisions ensure that the application is robust, maintainable, and follows modern web development practices.

## Docker Setup

The application has been containerized using Docker and can be easily deployed using Docker Compose. This provides consistency across different environments and simplifies the deployment process.

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
- Disk space for volumes (minimum 1GB recommended)

### Container Architecture

- **MongoDB Container**: Database service
- **Backend Container**: Node.js Express API service
- **Frontend Container**: Angular application served with Nginx
- **Docker Network**: Dedicated bridge network for inter-container communication
- **Persistent Volume**: For MongoDB data storage

### Configuration Files

- **docker-compose.yml**: Main configuration file that defines services, networks, and volumes
- **backend/Dockerfile**: Instructions for building the Node.js backend image
- **frontend/Dockerfile**: Multi-stage build process for the Angular frontend with Nginx
- **frontend/nginx.conf**: Nginx configuration for serving the Angular application

### Environment Setup

Before running the containers, create an environment file for the backend:

```powershell
# Navigate to backend directory
cd backend

# Create .env.cityshob.be file
New-Item .env.cityshob.be -ItemType File

# Add environment variables
@"
PORT=3000
MONGO_URI=mongodb://mongodb:27017/tasks
JWT_SECRET=your_secure_secret_key
CLIENT_URL=http://localhost
"@ | Out-File .env.cityshob.be -Encoding utf8
```

> **Important**: Note that the MongoDB connection string uses `mongodb` as the hostname, which refers to the container name in the Docker network.

### Volume Configuration

By default, the MongoDB data is persisted to a volume mapped to `C:\Volumes\cityshob\mongodb_data`. To change this location, modify the `device` parameter in the `docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml
volumes:
  mongodb_data:
    driver: local
    driver_opts:
      type: none
      device: /your/custom/path/mongodb_data  # Linux/macOS path
      # or
      device: D:\YourCustomPath\mongodb_data  # Windows path
      o: bind
```

Make sure the directory exists before running Docker Compose:

```powershell
# Create the directory for MongoDB data
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Force -Path C:\Volumes\cityshob\mongodb_data
```

### Building and Running with Docker Compose

```powershell
# Build and start all services in detached mode
docker-compose up -d

# View logs of all containers
docker-compose logs -f

# View logs of a specific service
docker-compose logs -f backend

# Stop all services but keep volumes
docker-compose down

# Stop all services and remove volumes
docker-compose down -v
```

### Accessing the Dockerized Application

- Frontend application: http://localhost
- Backend API: http://localhost:3000
- MongoDB (from inside Docker network): mongodb://mongodb:27017

### Troubleshooting Docker Deployment

- **Container fails to start**: Check logs with `docker-compose logs <service-name>`
- **Database connection issues**: Ensure MongoDB container is healthy with `docker-compose ps`
- **Volume mounting problems**: Verify that the path specified in volume configuration exists and has proper permissions

## License

ISC

Commit message:

Add instructions for testing the API with test.http in README.md

README.md, after:

# CityShob - Task Management Application

A full-stack task management application built with MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express, Angular, Node.js) with real-time updates using Socket.IO.

## Technology Stack

### Backend

- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime environment
- **Express**: Web application framework for Node.js
- **TypeScript**: Typed superset of JavaScript
- **MongoDB**: NoSQL database for storing task and user information
- **Mongoose**: MongoDB object modeling for Node.js
- **Socket.IO**: Real-time bidirectional event-based communication
- **JWT**: JSON Web Tokens for authentication
- **bcrypt**: Password hashing
- **dotenv**: Environment variable management
- **cors**: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
- **cookie-parser**: Middleware for parsing cookies

### Frontend

- **Angular 19**: Frontend framework
- **Angular Material**: UI component library
- **RxJS**: Reactive programming library
- **Socket.IO-client**: Client library for Socket.IO
- **ngx-cookie-service**: Service for handling cookies

## Project Structure

```
.
├── backend/                 # Node.js Express backend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── config/          # Configuration files
│   │   ├── controllers/     # Request handlers
│   │   ├── customFilter/    # Error handling
│   │   ├── middleware/      # Express middleware
│   │   ├── models/          # Mongoose schemas
│   │   ├── routes/          # API routes
│   │   ├── services/        # Business logic
│   │   ├── index.ts         # Entry point
│   │   └── socket.io.ts     # Socket.IO configuration
│   ├── package.json
│   └── tsconfig.json
│
└── frontend/                # Angular frontend
    ├── src/
    │   ├── app/
    │   │   ├── components/  # Angular components
    │   │   ├── models/      # TypeScript interfaces
    │   │   ├── services/    # Angular services
    │   │   └── ...          # Other Angular files
    │   ├── environments/    # Environment configuration
    │   └── ...              # Other Angular files
    ├── angular.json
    └── package.json
```

## Features

- User authentication (register, login, logout)
- Create, read, update, delete tasks
- Real-time updates when tasks are modified
- Responsive design with Angular Material

## API Endpoints

### Authentication

- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register a new user
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Login
- `POST /api/auth/logout` - Logout

### Tasks

- `GET /api/tasks` - Get all tasks for the authenticated user
- `POST /api/tasks` - Create a new task
- `PUT /api/tasks/:id` - Update a task
- `DELETE /api/tasks/:id` - Delete a task

## Socket.IO Events

- `task-created` - Emitted when a new task is created
- `task-updated` - Emitted when a task is updated
- `task-deleted` - Emitted when a task is deleted

## Setting Up and Running Locally

Follow these comprehensive steps to set up and run the application on your local machine:

### 1. Clone the Repository

```powershell
git clone <repository-url>
cd CityShob
```

### 2. MongoDB Setup

Ensure MongoDB is installed and running locally, or use MongoDB Atlas for cloud-based database:

- For local MongoDB, start the MongoDB service
- For MongoDB Atlas, create a new cluster and connection string

### 3. Backend Setup

```powershell
# Navigate to backend directory
cd backend

# Create .env file
New-Item .env -ItemType File

# Add environment variables to .env
@"
PORT=3000
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/tasks
JWT_SECRET=your_secure_secret_key
CLIENT_URL=http://localhost:4200
"@ | Out-File .env -Encoding utf8

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

### 4. Frontend Setup

```powershell
# Open a new terminal window
# Navigate to frontend directory
cd frontend

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server using one of these commands:
npm start   # uses the script defined in package.json
# OR
ng serve    # uses Angular CLI directly
```

### 5. Access the Application

- Backend API: http://localhost:3000
- Frontend application: http://localhost:4200

### 6. First-time Setup

1. Register a new user account
2. Log in with your credentials
3. Start creating and managing tasks

## Design Decisions and Patterns

The application follows several architectural and design patterns to ensure maintainability, scalability, and code quality:

### Architecture

- **MEAN Stack**: Combines MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node.js for a JavaScript-based full-stack solution.
- **RESTful API**: Backend resources are exposed through a RESTful API interface with proper HTTP methods.
- **Real-time Communication**: Socket.IO implementation enables real-time task updates across clients.

### Design Patterns

- **MVC Pattern**: The backend follows the Model-View-Controller pattern:

  - Models (Mongoose schemas) for data structure
  - Controllers for request handling
  - Services for business logic

- **Repository Pattern**: Data access is abstracted through service classes.
- **Dependency Injection**: Angular services use DI for loose coupling between components.
- **Observer Pattern**: RxJS observables are used for reactive state management in the frontend.
- **Guard Pattern**: Route guards provide authentication protection for routes.

### Security Considerations

- **JWT Authentication**: Secure authentication using JSON Web Tokens.
- **Password Hashing**: Bcrypt is used for secure password storage.
- **CORS Configuration**: Properly configured Cross-Origin Resource Sharing.
- **HTTP-only Cookies**: For secure token storage and transmission.

### Code Organization

- **Feature Modules**: Frontend code is organized by feature for better maintainability.
- **Single Responsibility**: Components and services follow the single responsibility principle.
- **Separation of Concerns**: Clear separation between UI, business logic, and data access.

These design decisions ensure that the application is robust, maintainable, and follows modern web development practices.

## Docker Setup

The application has been containerized using Docker and can be easily deployed using Docker Compose. This provides consistency across different environments and simplifies the deployment process.

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
- Disk space for volumes (minimum 1GB recommended)

### Container Architecture

- **MongoDB Container**: Database service
- **Backend Container**: Node.js Express API service
- **Frontend Container**: Angular application served with Nginx
- **Docker Network**: Dedicated bridge network for inter-container communication
- **Persistent Volume**: For MongoDB data storage

### Configuration Files

- **docker-compose.yml**: Main configuration file that defines services, networks, and volumes
- **backend/Dockerfile**: Instructions for building the Node.js backend image
- **frontend/Dockerfile**: Multi-stage build process for the Angular frontend with Nginx
- **frontend/nginx.conf**: Nginx configuration for serving the Angular application

### Environment Setup

Before running the containers, create an environment file for the backend:

```powershell
# Navigate to backend directory
cd backend

# Create .env.cityshob.be file
New-Item .env.cityshob.be -ItemType File

# Add environment variables
@"
PORT=3000
MONGO_URI=mongodb://mongodb:27017/tasks
JWT_SECRET=your_secure_secret_key
CLIENT_URL=http://localhost
"@ | Out-File .env.cityshob.be -Encoding utf8
```

> **Important**: Note that the MongoDB connection string uses `mongodb` as the hostname, which refers to the container name in the Docker network.

### Volume Configuration

By default, the MongoDB data is persisted to a volume mapped to `C:\Volumes\cityshob\mongodb_data`. To change this location, modify the `device` parameter in the `docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml
volumes:
  mongodb_data:
    driver: local
    driver_opts:
      type: none
      device: /your/custom/path/mongodb_data  # Linux/macOS path
      # or
      device: D:\YourCustomPath\mongodb_data  # Windows path
      o: bind
```

Make sure the directory exists before running Docker Compose:

```powershell
# Create the directory for MongoDB data
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Force -Path C:\Volumes\cityshob\mongodb_data
```

### Building and Running with Docker Compose

```powershell
# Build and start all services in detached mode
docker-compose up -d

# View logs of all containers
docker-compose logs -f

# View logs of a specific service
docker-compose logs -f backend

# Stop all services but keep volumes
docker-compose down

# Stop all services and remove volumes
docker-compose down -v
```

### Testing the API with test.http

After your Docker containers are running, you should create a user account through the API:

1. Open the `backend/src/test.http` file in your editor
2. Find the section labeled `### Register a new user`
3. You can change username and password if you wish
4. Run this HTTP POST request to create a new user account
5. After successful registration, you can proceed to login using the created credentials

> **Note**: If you're using VS Code, install the "REST Client" extension to execute HTTP requests directly from the editor.

### Accessing the Dockerized Application

- Frontend application: http://localhost/login
- Backend API: http://localhost:3000
- MongoDB (from inside Docker network): mongodb://mongodb:27017

### Troubleshooting Docker Deployment

- **Container fails to start**: Check logs with `docker-compose logs <service-name>`
- **Database connection issues**: Ensure MongoDB container is healthy with `docker-compose ps`
- **Volume mounting problems**: Verify that the path specified in volume configuration exists and has proper permissions

## License

ISC
